The Galveston storm was when? In 1900. Early
September 1900. Was it a hurricane? Yeah, it was
what we call a hurricane. It was what we call a
hurricane now. And it was awful bad. And there also
had been... a big storm and the Rattus River
overflowed and that was bad. And all the way around
they just caught it. Same year? Well, not exactly
the same year, but it was close to together. And
they
just didn't know what to do and so they just moved
off and left the whole thing. Did they lose all
their property? Yes, it was finally sold. I don't
know how much. And that is the money that... and we
then spent a little money on a farm that's now
called Mine at... Thornton?
Now, is there anything I haven't brought out that
you would like for me to mention this afternoon?
Oh, no. I can't think of anything right now. How old
were you? Do you remember anything about the
storm? Do I remember the storm? Yes, I remember it.
I remember how the wind blew. Did it flood? Oh, yes.
The seawall? The water came in the house, and
everything, and the rain blew. I remember when the
house blew. It was a two-story block. And I
remember when it blew off the blocks, you know.
Nobody in the family was killed, were they? Oh, no.
None of us were hurt. That's a miracle. None of us
were hurt, but it blew all night. And the next day,
it was just as fire and calm as it could be. That
storm had lasted all night. But the next day, it
was... just as far as could be. And so, I believe, if
there's anything else you want to... And so we left
there, and oh, we got malaria, you know, from other
mosquitoes. How'd you get rid of that? Oh, well, we
didn't, and it's finally cost our
lives. He lived a few, well, two or three years. But
he died of what a doctor told me. We called it black
jaundice. Somebody was interviewing me about
some insurance. And I said, how did... Mama, of
course, was living with him. How did our father
die? And I said, well, they said he had black
jaundice. And he says, honey, do you know what
black jaundice is? And I says, no. Of course, I
remember him. I was nine years old. I remember how
he was affected. Their kidneys turned to blood.
And I remember seeing him carry out those hot jars
of bloody water. And he lived about a week. And he
said it was acute. This doctor told me, it was at
March, this doctor told me that. He's dead now.
It's one that Hegg called. You know, Hegg had a
sister named... What was Ms. Collins' name? Well,
anyway, Dr. Collins' wife was Peg's sister. And it
was he that was talking to me about the insurance.
And he said it was a cuticle area that he died on. I
said, well, that was where? He says, you didn't
develop it there in this country. I said, oh, no, we
got it down there on the coast. When did you move the
car from down there? from Angleton. We came to,
near Cossie, and you know, Cossie's not far from
Thornton. And there we stayed until, well, we came
to Thornton. And,
oh,
I'm so, We jumped off one thing onto another. We
were talking about his death, you know. He died at
52, you see. He was an old man when he died. And Clem
looks more like him than any child he had. Tell me
about your school. Where did y'all go to school
over there? I hadn't started school very big then.
We were on the way out in the country near, well we
were at what near the school was, Eureka, between
Cossie and Todd. And Clem and Roy went to school.
Bird and Albert were high school age then. And Clem
and Roy went to school at Eureka. It's about midway
between them. It's up there now, isn't it? Yes, it
is. They don't have a school there anymore. I think
the schoolhouse may be there. I don't know whether
it's a community house or not. It was a school there
for many years. They had a very good little country
school. And when I started to school, I went there
to school.
But we didn't go along. We later moved up to
Thornton, near Thornton. And there we went to our
sister Dorcas taught this country school near
Thornton. It was called Mill Creek. And there they
went to school. And we all did. And she taught that
year. Maybe she taught two years. I don't know.
Anyway, then
the next school we went to was the Thornton School.
We have a picture of Clem's class in the Thornton
School. How old was he then? Well, he looked grown,
but of course he wasn't any older than the children
in the class all looked. And there were children,
well, you didn't know, but your mother and daddy,
your mother, grandmother did. There was, oh,
there was 10 or 12 of them. And their professor, and
the professor went from there to, he was a good
teacher, went from there to Commerce, Texas to
teach a little It wasn't a summer school, but he
went there to teach. And he lived there a few years.
They just had one teacher? In high school. Just one
teacher in high school. And I was down in the
grades. And Roy was down, he was ahead of me, of
course. And so we have that picture. And of those
people in that picture, that are living now, Clem
is just about the only one that's left. Dr. Kidd,
Earl Kidd, made a dentist. And he's been dead some
time. His wife lives in Dalton. And now I'm just
talking about the picture. I don't know that you
were even there. Yeah, I might. And then so many of
those folks. And Walter Sparks lived there, and he
lived in Rosebeck, and he has died. They're just
about all dead with them. How long did y'all go to
school there? Well, I went to school there off and
on, practically all of my schooling, and I
graduated from that school. We didn't have them.
10 grades then. And I graduated from that school
when I was about 17. And of course Clem and Roy both
quit to work. Clem was a good student. I don't know
about Roy, but I remember that.
They quit the farm? Yes, to work on the farm. You
see, Albert left home. Your granddaddy, Taylor,
he was gone. There wasn't much for folks on the farm
then.
And so they quit the work.
So then I kept on going. I went to school, and I drove
a horse. Drove a horse and buggy, or did you ride
just the horse? Horse and buggy. I went on the
horse, and I drove a horse for a mile. And it would be
about sunset when I get home in the afternoon. How
far were you from school? How far was it? It was
about three miles. But I just fooled along. I
didn't run in any hurry. Mom could see me coming
away in the distance. Of course, that road is
closed now that I came. How many kids were in the
school when you were in there? How many kids were
around that school? Oh, I guess it was maybe 200 or
300. That's a lot. Well, it was a lot of kids. It
wasn't all bigger than the town was. We thought it
was bigger then, though, than it is right now. I've
heard Martin was a bigger guy then, too. Yes, my
father was. And anything else you want to know?
Well, where did Ampop go then? Well, where did he go
to school? I don't know. What did he do when he quit
school? He went to school, I reckon, in Angleton.
He and Albert went to school in Angleton, I guess.
But they came with us when we left Angleton. See, we
came by wagon. and brought the cows and the horses
and everything. When did he get married? In what
year? Well, Clem will probably know that. I don't
know. I
was sure it was 1905.
He said it was either Christmas Day or Christmas
Eve, whichever it was, but it was 1905. Did he just
move to Grosbeck and Big Hill then? No. See, we all
lived near Thornton, as near Thornton as anywhere
else. It was our town. And we lived off in the
pasture. And he had rented him a place for them to go
to live over two or three miles to the west of us over
in the neighborhood of, oh, well, I don't know who
lives over there now. But anyway, it wasn't too far
away from where we lived.
And so they got busy and mama gave them things and
your grandmother, your Your grandmother's folks
gave them things, and they had, and he, Byrne had
made a good crowd that year, and he bought them some
furniture. And they fixed it. And a man, some folks
named Watson owned the place where, I don't know
who owns it now, but somebody named Watson owned
it, and he was a very good father. Well, did you go to
college? Well, yes. And then I studied and I went to
Trinity University. Where was that? It was in
Waxahachie at that time. It's been in San Antonio
now for a number of years. But that's where I went.
And then later, when I got my certificate, we
didn't have to have a degree then to start. We just
had to have a certificate. I kept on working, you
know, and going to school, teaching and
everything. Did you teach all grades? No, I never
did teach a whole big grade. My first school was
at... an orphanage near Itasca, Texas. And that
was in 1918. And Clem was in the Army. You see, he had
to go to the World War I. And that year, the old
schools were terribly torn up at that time, of
course, due to the due to the war and everything.
And then later on I went to Baylor a lot and studied a
lot one way or another. Now anything else you want
to know? Well...
Uncle Clem, can you tell me, you remember much
about World War I and how you Were
you drafted? Oh, yes, yes. You were? Did they send
notices like they do now? When was that? Do you
remember what year? I guess it was June. June 14th
was when I went. Well, where did you go first?
College Station. Really? College Station. Was
it on the campus? Was it at
College
Station?
Where'd you go from there? Did you get basic
training there? I was just a young man. Went from
Atlanta, Camp Jordan, St. John's, to
Jacksonville, Florida. Jacksonville? Did you go
overseas from there? Yes. Where'd you go? I went
overseas from Newport, New Virginia, you see.
They didn't have any place there to load any boats.
They took us to Newport, New Virginia. Uh-huh.
What were your duties? I mean, what did you have to
do? Uh-uh.
What's that?
Everything would destroy me. I heard you went to
France. How long were you over there? About six
months. Did you see any combat?
No. We're in France. We're in France. Where
are you?
How long were you over there? Six months? We
discharged after the war? No, after
the war.